---
title: Shif left in Mobile App Automation Testing
author: Brijendra Singh
category: Mobile
tags: [test pyramid, component test , detox, mobile automation]
img: ":post_pic_detox.jpg"
date: 2022-04-27 08:11:06 +0900
meta_description: "meta TBU"
published: false
---
> Do you want to get rid mobile app object inspection and also tired of maintaining 2 versions of locators to deal with ios and android systems separately ? Try out Detox e2e gray box automation solution. It will help you shift left and can build a solid defect prevention platform.
> Detox will help you run test as soon developer make a change in feature and get it validate in close proximity of unit/integration test. yes, you heard right. Detox e2es will run in close proximity of unit/integration tests. 
    
## Detox Design Principles
Not
- WebDriver
- Black box
    
It is
- Gray box
- Synchronization with App’s activity.
- First-class React Native support.
- Expectations run on the app, not the tester process.

## Automated testing framework by Google
Espresso
- Native framework for Android automated testing.
- Automatic synchronization
- Simple and lightweight API.
- Doesn’t require server communication 
- Espresso allows compiling automated Android UI tests into a separate APK i.e., the test suite will run next to the app on the device.

EarlGray
- Native iOS UI automation test framework 
- Automatically synchronizes with the UI, network requests, and various queues.
- EarlGrey is faster and effective in comparison to XCUITest.


## Prerquisite
$ xcrun simctl list
$ open -a Simulator --args -CurrentDeviceUDID <UDID>

$ ANDROID_HOME/tools/bin/avdmanager create avd -n <emulatorname> -d pixel --package  "system-images;android-30;google_apis;x86"
$ ANDROID_HOME/emulator/emulator -verbose @<emulatorname>
  
 WIP - Please hold on 
